With that out of the way, we can now create a new Ionic Angular project and for this, you should open
your terminal or command prompt and navigate into the path where you want to create your project folder.
Now we will use the Ionic CLI which is a tool provided by the Ionic team for creating this project
because that is the easiest way of setting up an Ionic Angular project
you can find.
Now for that to be usable, in case you skipped Module 1 of this course, you first of all need to install
NodeJS from nodejs.org. There
fetch the latest version and only if you are facing issues with that, choose the LTS version here.
So choose the latest version, download it and go through the installer,
it's available for Mac and Windows and you get a convenient installer through which you simply have to
go and we do install NodeJS for two reasons.
Reason number one is that it also gives us Node's Package Manager, NPM, which is the defacto standard package
manager for managing Javascript dependencies, not only in NodeJS projects but actually in any project
that uses Javascript,
no matter if it's a front-end or back-end project and therefore our Angular Ionic project also will
use NPM to manage its dependencies and with dependencies, I mean things like the Angular framework, the
Ionic framework and dependencies of these frameworks. So that's the first reason, NPM,
the second reason is NodeJS itself. Even though we'll not write any NodeJS code in this course, we
need
NodeJS because behind the scenes, the Angular CLI and the Ionic CLI which we'll both use use NodeJS
to build our project, to spin up a development server where we can preview our app and so on. So download
and install NodeJS and thereafter,
make sure you also have the Ionic CLI installed.
Now in case you need detailed instructions, you can find that on ionicframework.com, under developers
installation and then install with CLI.
It's this command with NPM installed which you have to execute.
So let's copy that into our terminal here and on Mac and Linux, you might need to add a sudo in front
of this, on Windows make sure you're running the command prompt as administrator by right-clicking on
its executable and then choosing run as administrator and this will now install the Ionic CLI
globally on your machine.
Now we do need that Ionic CLI for things like creating new projects but also then to run our projects,
to build our app, especially then also to build a mobile app, that is something where the Ionic CLI
will be important and this is generally our global Ionic project management tool you could say. Now with
it installed and navigated into that folder here where you want to create your project, run Ionic start
and you saw this command in the first module of the course already, this allows you to create a new project.
Now first of all here as it tells you, you should choose a project name and I will simply go with
ionic-angular-course, you can of course choose any name you want. Then you should pick a template and
I will go with the blank template, if you would use another template, you would start with certain features
already added in the dummy app you get out of the box but we will add these features step-by-step together
in this course
so that you learn all about them. Hence let's go with the blank template and this will now create a new
project and install all the required dependencies of the project which will take a while and I'll be
back once it's done. Once the installation finished, you're asked whether you want to install the free
AppFlow SDK and you don't need that,
it's an extra tool offered by Ionic,
you can find more information about it in the official Ionic docs of course,
there you can find out what AppFlow is. In the end,
it's a service that requires you to sign up, you can sign up for free and then you can also test your
app a bit easier on native devices and you can even build it in the cloud which also allows you as a
Windows user to for example build iOS apps,
that then however will be a paid feature and therefore, I'll not show it in this course.
So I'll choose no here, we don't need that and thereafter, I created this project. We could now run it
with the instructions you see here
but I'll actually not do that and instead, open that in my editor of choice which is still Visual Studio
Code.
Here is the created project open in Visual Studio Code,
now one quick note about Visual Studio Code. Under view extensions here, you can actually make sure
that you install the Angular essentials,
simply search for Angular essentials up here to make your life as an Angular developer a bit easier
in case you don't have these extensions yet and I also used and will still use the material icon theme
which you can always install from there.
This is optional,
it just changes the file icons in the project but still, this is the exact same look I have,
so if you want to have that same look, make sure to install this extension, thereafter you can go back
to view explorer.
So this is the project and it basically and that is important, is a normal Angular project.
Now let me walk you through it and explain where it differs from a normal Angular project and how it
is connected to Ionic.